PlanITpoker Phase 3
Group 2
12 July, 2017

1.  Create separate templates for Users, Teams, Communities, and Games
        Estimated time: 30 minutes
        Actual time:  ~30 minutes

2.  Write about search implementation and tools used in our technical report
        Estimated time: 2 hours 
        Actual time: 1.5 hours

3.  Refine UML diagram
        Estimated time: 15 minutes
        Actual time: 5 minutes
        
4.   Refine/add more API functions
        Estimated time: 3 hours
        Actual time: 5 hours
        
5.  Implement basic search form
        Estimated time: 1 hour
        Actual time: 3 hours
        
        The extra time ended up coming from trying out different designs, placement, and
        effects. We ended up going with a simple search bar in the end.
        
6.   Improve UI
        - Fix nav bar issues
        - Hide unecessary indicator numbers under carousel
        Estimated time: 2 hours
        Actual time: 4 hours
        
        The two mentioned above ended up being specific points we needed to address, but minor
        tweaks to the overall site was made also, so the actual time became greater than estimated.
        
7.   Update unit tests with new API
        Estimated time: 4 hours
        Actual time: 5 hours
        
8.  Create a well-formatted results page that displays data returned from search query
        Estimated time: 3 hours
        Actual time: 10 hours
        
        Probably unsurprising that we ended up having a lot of issues with making the front-end do
        the things the way we wanted it to.
        
9.  Find and implement a compatible full-text search library
        Estimated time: 3 hours
        Actual time: 18 hours
        
        Though we had a very basic search working, our inexperience with implementing searching in
        general caused us to be confused about a lot of details and we were constantly modifying how
        the function performed. 
        
10. Add react elements
        Estimated time: 5 hours
        Actual time: 3 hours
        
    